ANS 1 :

	Arbitration is a procedure in which a dispute is submitted, by agreement of the parties, 
	to one or more arbitrators who make a binding decision on the dispute. In choosing arbitration, 
	the parties opt for a private dispute resolution procedure instead of going to court.
	Its principal characteristics are:
	
	- Arbitration is consensual
	Arbitration can only take place if both parties have agreed to it. In the case of future 
	disputes arising under a contract, the parties insert an arbitration clause in the relevant 
	contract. An existing dispute can be referred to arbitration by means of a submission agreement 
	between the parties.
	
	- The parties choose the arbitrator(s)
	The WIPO Rules specifically protect the confidentiality of the existence of the arbitration, 
	any disclosures made during that procedure, and the award. In certain circumstances, 
	the WIPO Rules allow a party to restrict access to trade secrets or other confidential 
	information that is submitted to the arbitral tribunal or to a confidentiality advisor 
	to the tribunal.
	
	- The decision of the arbitral tribunal is final and easy to enforce
	Under the WIPO Rules, the parties agree to carry out the decision of the arbitral tribunal
	without delay. International awards are enforced by national courts under the New York Convention, 
	which permits them to be set aside only in very limited circumstances.
	
ANS 2 :
	
		Advantages of arbitration over traditional litigation is followed:
		1. Litigation involves multiple court proceedings under different laws of different countries, 
		   and the results are always conflicting whereas arbitration procedure involves the decision on 
		   merits of the case and only the law that is applied by the common consensus of both the parties.
		   The arbitrating body is not bound to follow a specific procedure and they can formulate their 
		   own procedures. 
		2. Most of the honourable judges in majority of the countries of the world are not young and such
		   positions are only given to the people having relevant expertise in their field. Therefore the
		   judges in litigation might not have the required expertise in the field. Whereas, in 
		   arbitration, the parties can choose their arbitrator and hence only such a person is chosen 
		   as arbitrator who satisfies both the parties equally.
		3. Considering the factor of urgency, where on one hand the litigation procedure goes on with 
		   the classic procedure of the courts which they are bound to follow in case of any of the 
		   disputes are mostly lengthy and tedious and run into generations. The result of such a delay 
		   in justice would not yield proper justice to the aggrieved but in the case of arbitration, 
		   the arbitrators as well as the parties are at the option to shorten the procedure or 
		   elongate it for proper discussion as how and when they like. Arbitration would also be 
		   available with the option of interim relief to the aggrieved parties, which might not be 
		   binding on the parties. They can at any time go to the court to seek any such remedy.
		4. The litigation procedure is never final unless the apex court of the country passes such orders 
		   either in favour or against. In the case of arbitration, there is a limited or no appeal option 
		   which can be waived off at the option of parties. 
		5. The litigation proceedings of any case, except otherwise stated by law, are to take place 
		   publically, which also involves the narration of facts as well as the property description 
		   over which the dispute is required to be settled.This would make the secrets public and would
		   result in huge loss of Intellectual Property to the aggrieved. Therefore, to ensure the 
		   confidentiality and trade secrets of the parties, and also to secure the reputation of them, 
		   the arbitration can be done in closed curtains and the proceedings as well as the awards can 
		   be made confidentially.
		   

ANS 3 :
		
		The arbitration award
			- is the decision made by arbitrators, which
			- solves claims of the parties,
			- provisionally or finally. 
		It may determine
			-legal or
			- factual disputed questions or
			- rights and obligations of the parties.
			
		The final award in merit is binding and has res judicata effect among the parties,which means 
		that the already decided mater cannot be arbitrated again. 
		
		 Arbitral awards may be divided into:
			- the award on merit,
			- the partial award, sometimes embellished with the interim award,
			- the default award,
			- the award on agreed terms,
			- the additional award. 
			
		Awards issued in most of the major arbitration centres of the world are enforceable in India. 
		Part II of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, which governs enforcement of foreign awards in
		India, applies only to awards issued in jurisdictions notified by the Indian government as 
		jurisdictions in which the New York Convention applies. The government has notified all key 
		centres of international arbitration, including France, the United Kingdom, China, Singapore, 
		Sweden, Switzerland and the United States.
		
ANS 4:
		
		Following are the responsibilities of architect to the client :
		
		1. The Architect may introduce to a prospective Client the Professional services he is able to 
		   perform provided it is limited to Presentation of examples of his professional experience and 
		   does not entail the offering of free preliminary sketches or other services without the benefit 
		   of an agreement with the Client for legitimate compensation.
		
		2. The Architect shall acquaint or ascertain from the Client at the very inception of their 
		   business relationship, the exact nature and scope of his services and the corresponding 
		   professional charges.
		 
		3. The Architect shall advise a Client against proceeding with any project whose practicability may be 
		   questionable due to financial, legal or arresting or exigent conditions, even if such advice may 
		   mean the loss of a prospective commission to the Architect.
		
		4. The Architect shall consider the needs and stipulation of his Client and the effects of his 
		   work upon the life and well-being of the public and the community as a whole, and to endeavor
		   to meet the aesthetic and functional requirements of the project commensurate with the 
		   Client's appropriation.
		
		5. The Architect shall include in his agreement with the Client a clause providing for 
		   arbitration as a method for settlement of disputes.
		   
ANS 5:

		Architects have a duty to exercise their personal skill and judgementment in the performance of their
		work, and they may not delegate this duty without express authority to do so. They may, however, 
		delegate responsibility to subordinates while performing their duties as agents.
		A supervising architect does not have implied authority to perform work that has been assigned to a contractor or to employ or discharge workers. 
		The supervising architect does, however, have authority to make decisions concerning proper 
		workmanship, fitness of materials, and the manner of work.



ANS 6 :
		Professional Duties of Architect:
		
		1.1 Service: "Service", as defined under Section 2 (1) (o) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986,
			rendering professional service by an architect for "consideration" falls within the 
			ambit of "service". The relationship between the Client and the Architect is that of recipient 
			and provider of service. The professional services rendered by the architect mean the services
			rendered pursuant to the Conditions of Engagement and Scale of Charges, entered into between the
				Client and the Architect.

		1.2 Competence: An architect, being a professional, shall possess the required knowledge and 
		    skill i.e. proficiency and competence for discharging his professional duties and functions. 
			These are governed under the provisions of the Architects Act, 1972 and the Architects 
			(Professional Conduct) Regulations, 1989, framed thereunder.

		1.3 Duty of care: It means duty to exercise utmost skill and care. When an architect offers 
			professional advice/architectural services, implicitly undertakes that he is possessed of the 
			knowledge and skill for the purpose. Thus, an architect shall bring to his task a reasonable 
			degree of knowledge and skill and must exercise a reasonable degree of care.

		1.4 Duties: The duties that are required to be performed by an architect for various types of 
			projects have been prescribed by the Council of Architecture under the Conditions of 
			Engagement and Scale of Charges for respective areas in the field of architecture. 
			The documents stipulate the parameters within which the Architect is required to function. 
			However, the Conditions of Engagement and matters related therewith for a given project 
			shall be carried out in accordance with the terms and Conditions of Agreement executed 
			between the Client and the Architect.

		An architect may be liable to their client for:
			-Breach of contract.
			-Through the tort of negligence.
			-Under statute.
			
		-A minimum standard of reasonable skill and care is to be exercised in the discharge of 
		 professional duties carried out under the contract.
		-A higher duty to achieve particular results, comparable with the duty generally placed upon a 
		 builder, may be contracted for.
		-Duties under the law of tort to third parties may also be owed to a client concurrent with a 
		 contractual duty.
		-A more specialist duty may be owed in tort when giving advice whether to a client or to a third 
		 party.
		-Additional duties may be imposed by statutes.
		

ANS 7 :
	1. Consumer	
		A consumer is a person or organization that uses economic services or commodities.
		In economic systems consumers are utilities expressed in the decision to trade or not.
		
		The consumer is the one who pays to consume goods and services produced. As such, consumers 
		play a vital role in the economic system of a nation. Without consumer demand, producers 
		would lack one of the key motivations to produce: to sell to consumers. The consumer also 
		forms part of the chain of distribution.
	
	2. Concept of Consumer Protection
		In regulatory jurisdictions that provide for this (a list including most or all developed 
		countries with free market economies) consumer protection is a group of laws and organizations 
		designed to ensure the rights of consumers, as well as fair trade, competition, and accurate 
		information in the marketplace. The laws are designed to prevent the businesses that engage in 
		fraud or specified unfair practices from gaining an advantage over competitors. They may also 
		provide additional protection for those most vulnerable in society. Consumer protection laws are 
		a form of government regulation that aim to protect the rights of consumers. For example, 
		a government may require businesses to disclose detailed information about products—particularly
		in areas where safety or public health is an issue, such as food.

		Consumer protection is linked to the idea of consumer rights, and to the formation of consumer 
		organizations, which help consumers make better choices in the marketplace and get help with 
		consumer complaints. Other organizations that promote consumer protection include government
		organizations and self-regulating business organizations such as consumer protection agencies 
		and organizations, ombudsmen, the Federal Trade Commission in America, and Better Business 
		Bureaus in America and Canada, etc.
	
	3. Services
	
		“Service” means service of any description which is made available to potential users and
		include, but not limited to, the provision of facilities in connection with banking, financing,
		insurance, transport, processing, supply of electrical or other energy, board or lodging or
		both, housing construction, entertainment, amusement or the purveying of news or other
		information, but does not include the rendering of any service free of charge or under a
		contract of personal services.
		
		Contract of Service :– It implies a relationship of a master and servant and involves
								to obey the order in the works to be performed and as to its mode and
								manner of performance. This does not come within the purview of CP Act.
		
		Contract for Service :– It implies a contract whereby one party undertakes to render services 
		e.g., profession or technical services to or for another in the performance of which, he is not 
		subject to detailed direction and control but exercises professional skills and uses his own 
		knowledge and decisions.
	
	4. Need for Consumer Protection
	
		Consumers play a vital role in the economic system of any nation. Consumers are the key
		players in the market place and their consumption patterns greatly influence the society
		and the economy. In the modern philosophy of marketing, consumer is supposed to be the
		‘king’ and business is expected to provide maximum possible satisfaction to consumers.
		Technology has made available a variety of goods and services to the consumers from
		all over the world, which are only a click away. New products and services throng the
		market every day, many of which disappear very soon. Coupled, with the revolution in
		information technology the consumers are facing new challenges, such as cyber-crime,
		plastic money, unsustainable consumption, global warning etc., which affects them in a
		number of ways. The consumer who is referred to as ‘king’ is actually a ‘victim’ of the
		market malpractices. Producers and sellers have only one motto; to maximize profit by
		engaging in all sort of deleterious practices and producing products that do not meet
		acceptable quality standards. In order to maximize profits, many businessmen exploit
		consumers by supplying poor quality goods at higher prices. Consumers are exposed to
		physical, environmental and other hazards. As a result consumers do not get value for
		their money.
		
		The Industrial revolution and the development in international trade and commerce has led
		to vast expansion of business and trade. As a result, a host of services have been made
		available to the consumers like insurance, transport, electricity, housing, entertainment,
		finance and banking. A well-organized sector of manufacturers and traders with better
		knowledge of markets has come into existence, thereby affecting the relationship between
		the traders and the consumers making the principle of consumer sovereignty almost
		inapplicable. The advertisements of goods and services in television, newspaper and
		magazines influence the demand for the same by the consumers though there may be
		manufacturing defects, imperfections, or shortcomings in the quality, quantity and the
		purity of the goods or there may be deficiency in the services rendered. For the welfare 
		of the public, the glut of adulterated and sub-standard articles in the market has to be
		checked. Therefore, it has become necessary to protect the consumers from exploitation,
		to save them from adulterated sub-standard goods and services, and to safeguard their
		interests. Though there have been many laws to protect the consumers but in order to
		provide for better protection of the interests of the consumers the Consumer Protection
		Act was enacted in 1986. 
		
		
Note: Refer the link for more details on question no 7
		http://consumeraffairs.nic.in/WriteReadData/userfiles/file/Consumer%20Handbook.pdf
		
	